# image-anomaly-detection
Anomaly detection on images using autoencoder
In the field of anomaly detection in images, we want to find anomalies in images that are very similar to the training data and differ slightly in confined regions. We will use Deep Learning approaches to tackle this problem. For this, we are using the MVTec Anomaly Detection (MVTec AD) dataset containing high-resolution color images of different object and texture categories. The MVTec Anomaly Detection dataset comprises 15 categories with 3629 images for training and validation and 1725 images for testing. The training set contains only images without defects. The test set contains both: images containing various types of defects and defect-free images. 
Our approach to solve this problem is to build an auto-encoder system which can detect anomaly. In the MVTec dataset, we are choosing the following object categories like Leather, Hazelnut, Carpet, etc. The test images of anomalous samples contains manually generated defects like scratches, dents and distortion in images. The idea is that this system receives an image of industrial inspection object and then it tries to reconstruct the image by a neural auto-encoder which has been trained with the MVTec AD dataset. The auto-encoder is trained with all the defect free training samples. Therefore, it will probably fail in reconstructing test images which has some kind of defect. Then we will implement the best suited error function to calculate pixel-wise error between original and reconstructed images. If the error is larger than some threshold, the corresponding pixel will be marked as anomaly. We are also proposing another approach of binary classification for anomaly detection where we will categorise the training samples in the MVTec AD dataset. In this case, anomalies are known beforehand and represented proportionally in the dataset. The we can rely on saliency map to localize the position of the anomalies.

